---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

The discussions in the videos around Innersource and using open source for business are extremely fascinating to me. In particular, I found the discussion about how the film industry has incorporated the use of open source to streamline problem solving. In the discussion, they talk about how in the 90s and early 2000s, before the film industry had really started to incorporate open source, nearly all software they used was proprietary and prohibitively expensive. In 2003, the project called OpenEXR really brought the use of open source to the film industry. Because the project was open source and solved a problem many people in the film industry had, it became very widely used. Now, projects such as Blender and OpenEXR are widely used by the film industry and allow smaller projects to be created without the prohibitive costs of similar proprietary software.
This week, I have been bogged down by many errors in my development environment. Now, I have fixed these errors and can press on and attempt to create a PR, which I would like to have done by Wednesday. I was having two main issues. One, my Qt creator, the IDE that the project is recommended to be developed on, was crashing and throwing all sorts of errors that I was unable to fix for a while. Upon being opened, it would throw many errors, time out, and crash my computer. As it turns out, after researching similar issues online, the fix for this issue was very simple. I needed to run a simple command in my terminal to make my .config file on my mac able to be written to, as it is read-only by default. Running this simple command to make the file read/write fixed all the issues I was having with Qt. My second error was a build error that I randomly started to have. It was due to one of the dependencies, which I had installed earlier, which must have been deleted somehow. I failed to recognize the error as a dependency issue and thought that I was somehow missing a file. After many headaches trying to figure out why the build was failing, it turned out all I had to do was re-install the package using homebrew. Now, once again, the project builds correctly.
